[Filebeat][httpjson] httpjson chain calls (#29816)
elastic/beats: x-pack/filebeat/docs/inputs/input-httpjson.asciidoc

]
----

[[chain]]
[float]

> === `chain`

Reviewer: The docs contain a sequence diagram that explains the high level flow. I think the chain feature should be added to the diagram.

Chain is a list of calls to be made after the first call.

chain list option: [`step`].

> 

Author: Got it.

[float]
==== `chain[].step`

> chain[].step will contain basic request and response configurations for chain calls.

Author: Got it.

[float]
==== `chain[].step.request`

> Please refer <<request-parameters,request parameters>>. also place same replace string in url where collected values from previous call should be place. Required. 

Author: Got it.

> Example:

Author: Right, As value can be different. user can mentioned different calls in specified way.

> first call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/
> 
> second call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/1/export_ids
> 
> third call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/export_ids/file_1/info

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- First call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/

- Second call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/1/export_ids

- Third call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/export_ids/file_1/info
```

Author: Okay

[float]

> ==== `chain[].step.respose.split`

Author: Right.

> Please refer <<response-split,response split parameter>>. Required.

Author: No, sorry.
My mistake.

[float]
==== `chain[].step.replace`

> replace is JSONPath string to parse values from response JSONs, collected from previous chain calls. Please look at the official doc of https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/index.html#e2[JSONPath]. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A [JSONPath](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/index.html#e2[JSONPath]) string to parse values from responses JSON, collected from previous chain steps. Required.
```

Is this always required? Can there be situations were a step does not expect a replaceable part?

Author: No, It's always required.

Example:

> - first call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/
> +
> <<response-json1,response>>
> 
> - second call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/`$.records[:].id`/export_ids
> +
> <<response-json2,response>>
> 
> third call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/export_ids`/`$.file_name`/info

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- First call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/
+
<<response-json1,response>>

- Second call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/`$.records[:].id`/export_ids
+
<<response-json2,response>>

- Third call: https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/export_ids`/`$.file_name`/info
```

+
[[response-json1]]
["source","json",subs="attributes"]
----
{
    "records": [
        {
            "id": 1,
        },
        {
            "id": 2,
        },
        {
            "id": 3,
        },
    ]
}
----

- Second call to collect `file_name` using collected ids from first call.

+
request_url using id as '1': https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/1/export_ids

+
response_json using id as '1':

+
[[response-json1]]
["source","json",subs="attributes"]
----
{
    "file_name": "file_1"
}
----

+
request_url using id as '2': https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/2/export_ids

+
response_json using id as '2':

+
["source","json",subs="attributes"]
----
{
    "file_name": "file_2"
}
----

- Third call to collect `files` using collected `file_name` from second call.

+
request_url using file_name as 'file_1': https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/export_ids/file_1/info

+
request_url using file_name as 'file_2': https://example.com/services/data/v1.0/export_ids/file_2/info

+
Collect and make events from response in any format supported by httpjson for all calls.

NOTE: httpjson chain will only create and ingest events from last call on chain configurations.

> httpjson chain will also 

Reviewer 2: I think this text is incomplete

Author: Oh, Right.
